International research has identified young men as reluctant to seek help for 
mental health problems. This research explored barriers and solutions to 
professional help seeking for mental health problems among young men living in 
the North West of Ireland. A qualitative approach, using two focus groups with 
six participants each and five face-to-face interviews, was conducted with men 
aged 18 to 24 years (total N = 17). Data were analyzed using thematic analysis. 
Seven key themes of barriers to professional help seeking were identified: 
"acceptance from peers," "personal challenges," "cultural and environmental 
influences," "self-medicating with alcohol," "perspectives around seeking 
professional help," "fear of homophobic responses," and "traditional masculine 
ideals." Five key themes of solutions to these barriers included "tailored 
mental health advertising," "integrating mental health into formal education," 
"education through semiformal support services," "accessible mental health 
care," and "making new meaning." Interesting findings on barriers include fear 
of psychiatric medication, fear of homophobic responses from professionals, the 
legacy of Catholic attitudes, and the genuine need for care. This study offers 
an in-depth exploration of how young men experience barriers and uniquely offers 
solutions identified by participants themselves. Youth work settings were 
identified as a resource for engaging young men in mental health work. Young men 
can be encouraged to seek help if services and professionals actively address 
barriers, combining advertising, services, and education, with particular 
attention and respect to how and when young men seek help and with whom they 
want to share their problems.