The majority of research on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders, 5th edition (DSM-5) Section III alternative model for personality 
disorders (PDs) has addressed the dimensional traits proposed in Criterion B, 
while limited research has evaluated Section III functional impairment criteria. 
The current study evaluated Section III impairment specific to the 6 personality 
disorder diagnoses included in the Section III model in a sample of 347 
undergraduates. We evaluated the factor structure of disorder-specific 
impairment; their associations with other measures of impairment, Section III 
traits, and Section II PD symptoms; as well as the incremental utility of 
impairment above and beyond traits in predicting Section II PD symptoms. Factor 
analyses indicated limited support for the 2 domain and 4 subfacet levels of 
impairment, but showed some support for disorder-specific impairment. 
Furthermore, disorder-specific impairment was associated with other measures of 
functional impairment, Section II PD symptoms, and Section III traits with a 
generally good degree of convergence. However, these findings showed a lack of 
discriminant validity, suggesting a lack of utility in measuring 
disorder-specific impairment, as opposed to more broadly evaluating an 
individual's level of functional impairment. Finally, impairment only added 
incremental utility to traits in predicting Section II Avoidant PD. By and 
large, these findings suggested mixed support for disorder-specific impairment 
as presented in Criterion A and raised additional questions regarding the 
utility of impairment when paired with dimensional personality traits.