Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent type of dementia in the elderly, 
severely affecting functional and executive skills of subjects suffering from 
this disease. Moreover, the distress of caregivers as well as the social 
implications constitute a critical issue for families. Furthermore, cognitive 
impairment, along with behavioral disorders and neuropsychiatric symptoms are 
characteristics of AD. Although these are present with variations in prevalence, 
intensity, and progression, an important core of them is visible before 
cognitive impairment, especially depression and apathy, which affect at least 
50% of patients. The most updated literature shows that depression and/or 
behavioral and neuropsychiatric symptoms (BNS) are part of the initial phase of 
the disease rather than just a risk factor. Thus, mood disorders are associated 
with anomalies in specific brain regions that disturb the normal balance of 
neurotransmission. This in turn is linked with an inflammatory pathway that 
leads to microglial activation and aggregated neurofibrillary tangle formation, 
finally triggering neuronal loss, according to our neuroimmunomodulation theory. 
Altogether, inflammation and tau aggregation are observed in preclinical stages, 
preceding the BNS of patients, which in turn are exhibited earlier than 
cognitive and functional impairment detected in AD. This review is focused on 
the latest insights of cellular and molecular processes associated with BNS in 
asymptomatic early-onset stages of AD. An important medical research focus is to 
improve quality of life of patients, through prevention and treatments of AD, 
and the study of behavioral disorders and early event in AD pathogenesis has a 
major impact.