The human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) enters the central nervous system 
compartment within the first few weeks of systemic HIV infection and may cause a 
spectrum of neurologic complications. Without combination antiretroviral therapy 
(cART), 50-90% of all HIV-infected infants and children develop some form of 
neuroAIDS. Of the estimated 2.3 million children less than 15 years of age who 
were living in sub-Saharan Africa at the end of 2014, only 30% were receiving 
cART, suggesting that there is a large burden of neuroAIDS among HIV-infected 
children in sub-Saharan Africa. There is complex interplay between the disease 
process itself, the child's immune reaction to the disease, the secondary 
complications, the side-effects of antiretroviral drugs, and inadequate 
antiretroviral drug uptake into the central nervous system. In addition there is 
the layering effect from the multiple socioeconomic challenges for children 
living in low- and middle-income countries. Adolescents may manifest with a 
range of neurocognitive sequelae from mild neurocognitive disorder through to 
severe neurocognitive impairment. Neuroimaging studies on white-matter tracts 
have identified dysfunction, especially in the frontostriatal networks needed 
for executive function. Psychiatric symptoms of depression, attention deficit 
hyperactivity disorder, and behavioral problems are also commonly reported in 
this age group. Antiretroviral drugs may cause treatment-limiting neurologic and 
neuropsychiatric adverse reactions. The following chapter addresses the 
neurologic complications known to be, and suspected of being, associated with 
HIV infection in children and adolescents.