Attitudes is a key help-seeking construct that influences treatment seeking 
behavior via intention to seek help, per the theory of planned behavior (TPB). 
This article presents the development and psychometric evaluation of the Mental 
Help Seeking Attitudes Scale (MHSAS), designed to measure respondents' overall 
evaluation (unfavorable vs. favorable) of their seeking help from a mental 
health professional. In Study 1 (N = 857 United States adults), exploratory 
factor analysis (EFA), confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), and item response 
theory (IRT) analysis were used to identify an optimal set of 9 items that 
demonstrated initial evidence of internal consistency, unidimensionality, and 
strong measurement equivalence/invariance (ME/I) across gender, past 
help-seeking experience, and psychological distress. Initial convergent evidence 
of validity was demonstrated via theoretically anticipated relationships between 
the MHSAS and key variables in the help-seeking nomological network (e.g., 
subjective norms, perceived behavioral control, intention, public stigma, 
self-stigma, anticipated risks and benefits, gender, previous help seeking). 
Initial incremental evidence of validity was demonstrated when the MHSAS 
demonstrated the ability to account for unique variance in help-seeking 
intention, beyond that accounted for by the Attitudes Toward Seeking 
Professional Psychological Help-Short Form scale (ATSPPH-SF) and the 
Psychological Openness subscale of the Inventory of Attitudes Toward Seeking 
Mental Health Services (IASMHS-PO). Study 2 (N = 207 United States adults at 
Times 1 and 2) provided initial evidence of test-retest reliability over a 
3-week period. The MHSAS offers mental health professionals a new tool for 
measuring attitudes that may avoid limitations of current help seeking-attitudes 
measures (e.g., construct-irrelevant variance)