OBJECTIVE: The authors sought to determine whether cannabis use is associated 
with a change in the risk of incident nonmedical prescription opioid use and 
opioid use disorder at 3-year follow-up.
METHOD: The authors used logistic regression models to assess prospective 
associations between cannabis use at wave 1 (2001-2002) and nonmedical 
prescription opioid use and prescription opioid use disorder at wave 2 
(2004-2005) of the National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related 
Conditions. Corresponding analyses were performed among adults with moderate or 
more severe pain and with nonmedical opioid use at wave 1. Cannabis and 
prescription opioid use were measured with a structured interview (the Alcohol 
Use Disorder and Associated Disabilities Interview Schedule-DSM-IV version). 
Other covariates included age, sex, race/ethnicity, anxiety or mood disorders, 
family history of drug, alcohol, and behavioral problems, and, in opioid use 
disorder analyses, nonmedical opioid use.
RESULTS: In logistic regression models, cannabis use at wave 1 was associated 
with increased incident nonmedical prescription opioid use (odds ratio=5.78, 95% 
CI=4.23-7.90) and opioid use disorder (odds ratio=7.76, 95% CI=4.95-12.16) at 
wave 2. These associations remained significant after adjustment for background 
characteristics (nonmedical opioid use: adjusted odds ratio=2.62, 95% 
CI=1.86-3.69; opioid use disorder: adjusted odds ratio=2.18, 95% CI=1.14-4.14). 
Among adults with pain at wave 1, cannabis use was also associated with 
increased incident nonmedical opioid use (adjusted odds ratio=2.99, 95% 
CI=1.63-5.47) at wave 2; it was also associated with increased incident 
prescription opioid use disorder, although the association fell short of 
significance (adjusted odds ratio=2.14, 95% CI=0.95-4.83). Among adults with 
nonmedical opioid use at wave 1, cannabis use was also associated with an 
increase in nonmedical opioid use (adjusted odds ratio=3.13, 95% CI=1.19-8.23).
CONCLUSIONS: Cannabis use appears to increase rather than decrease the risk of 
developing nonmedical prescription opioid use and opioid use disorder.