OBJECTIVE: Caregivers of advanced cancer patients provide extensive care 
associated with high levels of caregiver distress. The degree to which cancer 
caregiving increases caregivers' risk for a psychiatric disorder is unknown. The 
current study examines whether advanced cancer caregiving poses distinct risks 
for initial and recurrent major depressive episodes (MDEs) and generalized 
anxiety disorder (GAD) relative to the general population.
METHODS: Caregivers of advanced cancer patients (N = 540) from Coping with 
Cancer were compared to general population controls (N = 9282) from the National 
Comorbidity Survey Replication. The general population comparison sample was 
propensity-weighted to be demographically similar to the caregiver sample.
RESULTS: Caregivers of advanced cancer patients were more likely than 
individuals in the general population to have an initial MDE (OR = 7.7; 95% CI, 
3.5-17.0; P < .001), but no more likely than the general population to have a 
recurrent MDE (OR = 1.1; 95% CI, 0.6-2.1; P = .662). Caregivers were also more 
likely than the general population to have GAD (OR = 3.0; 95% CI, 1.9-4.8; 
P < .001) and comorbid MDE and GAD (OR = 2.5; 95% CI, 1.1-5.9; P = .038).
CONCLUSIONS: The increased risk of meeting diagnostic criteria for current MDE 
and GAD and comorbid MDE and GAD associated with advanced cancer caregiving 
highlights the degree of emotional burden among cancer caregivers. Clinical 
services that assess, prevent, and treat depression and anxiety in cancer 
caregivers are needed to reduce the burden of caregiving and improve the mental 
health of this growing population.
