BACKGROUND: This study looks at key risk factors in patients with schizophrenia 
to identify trends according to age of onset, comparing presentations prior to 
26years (youth onset), between 26 and 40years (middle onset), and after 40years 
of age (late onset).
METHODS: The early psychosis program at St Vincent's Hospital Melbourne treats 
patients presenting in the early stages of psychosis between 16 and 65years of 
age. A database was developed to capture key risk factors in all patients with 
an eventual diagnosis of schizophrenia (n=225). Risk factor profiles were then 
generated and compared for patients based on age of onset.
RESULTS: Older age of onset was associated with weaker family history of 
schizophrenia, lower rates of substance use, better early psychosocial 
functioning and higher educational achievement. Female preponderance and 
comorbid physical health problems were particularly notable in the late onset 
cohort. Later life schizophrenia also showed a relatively greater association 
with psychosocial factors proximal to psychosis onset, such as unemployment.
DISCUSSION: Clear trends are noticeable with age. Older patients have 
characteristic differences in their background risk factors compared to youth 
onset patients, including less hereditary influence and relatively more emphasis 
on later life risk factors. Identifying the roles of specific risk factors in 
these distinct age-onset groups can enhance our understanding of underlying 
aetiology and facilitate service development to meet the needs of each specific 
age group.