BACKGROUND: Undiagnosed diabetes mellitus cases are at higher risk for diabetic 
related complications. In low-income African countries, patients with 
undiagnosed diabetes mellitus account for 75% of diabetes cases. Psychiatric 
disorders have a greater impact on the global burden of diseases and disability 
associated with chronic diseases like diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular 
diseases.
METHODS: Institution based cross-sectional study was conducted at the University 
of Gondar Hospital from February to April 2016. A total of 205 psychiatric 
patients aged above 15 years that were taking antipsychotic were included by the 
simple random sampling method. Fasting blood glucose, triglycerides and 
cholesterol level were determined from venous blood samples to evaluate diabetes 
mellitus based on WHO criteria.
RESULTS: Among 205 psychiatric patients taking antipsychotics, 15(7.3%) had 
undiagnosed diabetes mellitus. Duration of antipsychotic treatment and sex had a 
statistically significant association with the prevalence of undiagnosed 
diabetes mellitus. As the duration of antipsychotic drug treatment increased by 
one year, the risk of having a diabetes mellitus increase by 1.47 times (AOR: 
1.47 CI: 1.021-2.125).
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes mellitus among psychiatry 
patients taking antipsychotics was higher than the estimated diabetes national 
prevalence of Ethiopia. Screening of diabetes mellitus in particular, patients 
having a longer duration of antipsychotic treatment is mandatory to bring more 
undiagnosed cases for medical attention.