BACKGROUND: Canadian public safety personnel (PSP; e.g., correctional workers, 
dispatchers, firefighters, paramedics, police officers) are exposed to 
potentially traumatic events as a function of their work. Such exposures 
contribute to the risk of developing clinically significant symptoms related to 
mental disorders. The current study was designed to provide estimates of mental 
disorder symptom frequencies and severities for Canadian PSP.
METHODS: An online survey was made available in English or French from September 
2016 to January 2017. The survey assessed current symptoms, and participation 
was solicited from national PSP agencies and advocacy groups. Estimates were 
derived using well-validated screening measures.
RESULTS: There were 5813 participants (32.5% women) who were grouped into 6 
categories (i.e., call center operators/dispatchers, correctional workers, 
firefighters, municipal/provincial police, paramedics, Royal Canadian Mounted 
Police). Substantial proportions of participants reported current symptoms 
consistent with 1 (i.e., 15.1%) or more (i.e., 26.7%) mental disorders based on 
the screening measures. There were significant differences across PSP categories 
with respect to proportions screening positive based on each measure.
INTERPRETATION: The estimated proportion of PSP reporting current symptom 
clusters consistent with 1 or more mental disorders appears higher than 
previously published estimates for the general population; however, direct 
comparisons are impossible because of methodological differences. The available 
data suggest that Canadian PSP experience substantial and heterogeneous 
difficulties with mental health and underscore the need for a rigorous 
epidemiologic study and category-specific solutions.