OBJECTIVES: Despite emerging evidence that older prisoners experience poor 
mental health, literature in this area is still limited. In the present 
systematic review and meta-analysis, we report on the prevalence of psychiatric 
disorders among older prisoners and compare our findings against community 
studies on older people.
METHODS: We searched on Assia, PsycInfo, MedLine, Embase, Web of Science, Google 
and Gov.uk. We carried out bias assessments, rated studies for quality and ran a 
heterogeneity test. We meta-analysed prevalence rates of psychiatric disorders 
through an aggregate weighted mean and calculated relative risk (RR) and 
statistical significance against community studies. Sensitivity analyses were 
further performed.
RESULTS: We reviewed nine studies and obtained the following prevalence: 'Any 
psychiatric disorder' 38.4%, depression 28.3%, schizophrenia/psychoses 5.5%, 
bipolar disorder 4.5%, dementia 3.3%, cognitive impairment 11.8%, personality 
disorder 22.9%, alcohol abuse 15.9%, anxiety disorders 14.2%, PTSD 6.2%. Older 
prisoners were found to have higher RR for every single psychiatric disorder 
against older people in the community, with the sole exception of alcohol abuse 
(RR = 1) and dementia (RR = .75). The prevalence rates were statistically 
significantly higher (p < .05) among the prisoners for 'Any psychiatric 
disorder', depression and personality disorder. Overall, the sensitivity 
analyses confirmed our original results.
CONCLUSION: Our findings point at a high prevalence of every single psychiatric 
disorder among older prisoners, who also experience rates of dementia and 
alcohol abuse comparable to those reported in the community. Our results have 
relevant implications for policy and practice in this area. Further research is 
crucial to confirm findings from this study.