Compulsions are repetitive, stereotyped thoughts and behaviors designed to 
reduce harm. Growing evidence suggests that the neurocognitive mechanisms 
mediating behavioral inhibition (motor inhibition, cognitive inflexibility) 
reversal learning and habit formation (shift from goal-directed to habitual 
responding) contribute toward compulsive activity in a broad range of disorders. 
In obsessive compulsive disorder, distributed network perturbation appears 
focused around the prefrontal cortex, caudate, putamen, and associated 
neuro-circuitry. Obsessive compulsive disorder-related attentional set-shifting 
deficits correlated with reduced resting state functional connectivity between 
the dorsal caudate and the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex on neuroimaging. In 
contrast, experimental provocation of obsessive compulsive disorder symptoms 
reduced neural activation in brain regions implicated in goal-directed 
behavioral control (ventromedial prefrontal cortex, caudate) with concordant 
increased activation in regions implicated in habit learning (presupplementary 
motor area, putamen). The ventromedial prefrontal cortex plays a multifaceted 
role, integrating affective evaluative processes, flexible behavior, and fear 
learning. Findings from a neuroimaging study of Pavlovian fear reversal, in 
which obsessive compulsive disorder patients failed to flexibly update fear 
responses despite normal initial fear conditioning, suggest there is an absence 
of ventromedial prefrontal cortex safety signaling in obsessive compulsive 
disorder, which potentially undermines explicit contingency knowledge and may 
help to explain the link between cognitive inflexibility, fear, and anxiety 
processing in compulsive disorders such as obsessive compulsive disorder.