BACKGROUND: Neuromyelitis optica is a relapsing inflammatory, secondarily 
demyelinating astrocytopathy that most commonly affects the optic nerves and the 
spinal cord.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the psychopathological profile, presence 
of current depression, and suicidality in patients with neuromyelitis optica 
spectrum disorders (NMOSD) in an Argentinean cohort, and compare these 
parameters to those in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and in healthy 
controls (HCs).
METHODS: Twenty patients with NMOSD, 18 with MS, and 20 healthy controls were 
included. The presence and grade of current depression were assessed using 
Beck's depression inventory (BDI), while psychiatric disease and suicidality 
were assessed using the Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview.
RESULTS: The prevalence of psychiatric disease in the NMOSD group was 45%, 
significantly higher than in the MS group (16%, p = 0.06) and the HCs (5%, p = 
0.008). Recurrent major depressive disorder was the most frequent psychiatric 
disease and was diagnosed in four (20%) patients in the NMOSD group and in two 
(11%) patients in the MS group. In the NMOSD group, two (10%) patients were 
diagnosed with past manic episodes, one (5%) with current dysthymic disorder, 
one (5%) with lifetime psychotic disorder, and one (5%) with bulimia nervosa. 
One patient (5.5%) in the MS group and one in the HC (5%) were diagnosed with 
current generalized anxiety disorder. Ten patients (50%) in the NMOSD group had 
current depressive symptoms versus five (28%) patients in the MS group (p = 
0.16) and two (10%) in the HC group (p = 0.02). Six (30%) patients with NMOSD 
versus only one (5.5%) patient with MS had attempted suicide at least once, this 
difference was statistically significant (p = 0.05). Current suicide risk was 
high in patients with NMOSD (8, 40%) and moderate in patients with MS (4, 22%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that the prevalence of psychiatric comorbidities in 
patients with NMOSD is significantly higher than in patients with MS and healthy 
controls. Given the high frequency of suicidality, assessment of pertinent 
psychiatric disorders in such patients to optimize monitoring and comprehensive 
treatment is required.
