Obsessive-compulsive disorder is a heterogeneous and debilitating condition, 
characterized by intrusive thoughts and compulsive repetition. Animal models of 
OCD are important tools that have the potential to contribute significantly to 
our understanding of the condition. Although there is consensus that 
pre-clinical models are valuable in elucidating the underlying neurobiology in 
psychiatric disorders, the current paper attempts to prompt ideas on how 
interpretation of animal behavior can be expanded upon to more effectively 
converge with the human disorder. Successful outcomes in psychopharmacology 
involve rational design and synthesis of novel compounds and their testing in 
well-designed animal models. As part of a special journal issue on OCD, this 
paper will 1) review the psychobehavioral aspects of OCD that are of importance 
on how the above ideas can be articulated, 2) briefly elaborate on general 
issues that are important for the development of animal models of OCD, with a 
particular focus on the role and importance of context, 3) propose why 
translational progress may often be less than ideal, 4) highlight some of the 
significant contributions afforded by animal models to advance understanding, 
and 5) conclude by identifying novel behavioral constructs for future 
investigations that may contribute to the face, predictive and construct 
validity of OCD animal models. We base these targets on an integrative approach 
to face and construct validity, and note that the issue of treatment-resistance 
in the clinical context should receive attention in current animal models of 
OCD.