BACKGROUND: Current classifications separate Bipolar (BD) from Major Depressive 
Disorder (MDD) based on polarity rather than recurrence. We aimed to determine 
bipolar/mixed feature frequency in a large MDD multinational sample with 
(High-Rec) and without (Low-Rec) >3 recurrences, comparing the two subsamples.
METHODS: We measured frequency of bipolarity/hypomanic features during current 
depressive episodes (MDEs) in 2347 MDD patients from the BRIDGE-II-mix database, 
comparing High-Rec with Low-Rec. We used Bonferroni-corrected Student's t-test 
for continuous, and chi-squared test, for categorical variables. Logistic 
regression estimated the size of the association between clinical 
characteristics and High-Rec MDD.
RESULTS: Compared to Low-Rec (n = 1084, 46.2%), High-Rec patients (n = 1263, 
53.8%) were older, with earlier depressive onset, had more family history of BD, 
more atypical features, suicide attempts, hospitalisations, and treatment 
resistance and (hypo)manic switches when treated with antidepressants, higher 
comorbidity with borderline personality disorder, and more hypomanic symptoms 
during current MDE, resulting in higher rates of mixed depression according to 
both DSM-5 and research-based diagnostic (RBDC) criteria. Logistic regression 
showed age at first symptoms < 30 years, current MDE duration â‰¤ 1 month, 
hypomania/mania among first-degree relatives, past suicide attempts, 
treatment-resistance, antidepressant-induced swings, and atypical, mixed, or 
psychotic features during MDE to associate with High-Rec.
LIMITATIONS: Number of MDEs for defining recurrence was arbitrary; 
cross-sectionality did not allow assessment of conversion from MDD to BD.
CONCLUSIONS: High-Rec MDD differed from Low-Rec group for several 
clinical/epidemiological variables, including bipolar/mixed features. Bipolarity 
specifier and RBDC were more sensitive than DSM-5 criteria in detecting bipolar 
and mixed features in MDD.