
Clarifying the relationships between neuropsychiatric symptoms and Alzheimer's 
disease (AD)-related pathology may open avenues for effective treatments. Here, 
we investigate the odds of developing neuropsychiatric symptoms across 
increasing burdens of neurofibrillary tangle and amyloid-β pathology. 
Participants who passed away between 2004 and 2014 underwent comprehensive 
neuropathologic evaluation at the Biobank for Aging Studies from the Faculty of 
Medicine at the University of São Paulo. Postmortem interviews with reliable 
informants were used to collect information regarding neuropsychiatric and 
cognitive status. Of 1,092 cases collected, those with any non-Alzheimer 
pathology were excluded, bringing the cohort to 455 cases. Braak staging was 
used to evaluate neurofibrillary tangle burden, and the CERAD neuropathology 
score was used to evaluate amyloid-β burden. The 12-item neuropsychiatric 
inventory was used to evaluate neuropsychiatric symptoms and CDR-SOB score was 
used to evaluate dementia status. In Braak I/II, significantly increased odds 
were detected for agitation, anxiety, appetite changes, depression, and sleep 
disturbances, compared to controls. Increased odds of agitation continue into 
Braak III/IV. Braak V/VI is associated with higher odds for delusions. No 
increased odds for neuropsychiatric symptoms were found to correlate with 
amyloid-β pathology. Increased odds of neuropsychiatric symptoms are associated 
with early neurofibrillary tangle pathology, suggesting that subcortical 
neurofibrillary tangle accumulation with minimal cortical pathology is 
sufficient to impact quality of life and that neuropsychiatric symptoms are a 
manifestation of AD biological processes.
