BACKGROUND: Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) was categorised in DSM-5 within the 
newly created 'obsessive-compulsive and related disorders' chapter, however this 
classification remains subject to debate. Confirmatory factor analysis was used 
to test competing models of the co-occurrence of symptoms of BDD, 
obsessive-compulsive disorder, unipolar depression, anxiety, and eating 
disorders in a community sample of adolescents, and to explore potential sex 
differences in these models.
METHODS: Self-report questionnaires assessing disorder symptoms were completed 
by 3149 Australian adolescents. The fit of correlated factor models was 
calculated separately in males and females, and measurement invariance testing 
compared parameters of the best-fitting model between males and females.
RESULTS: All theoretical models of the classification of BDD had poor fit to the 
data. Good fit was found for a novel model where BDD symptoms formed a distinct 
latent factor, correlated with affective disorder and eating disorder latent 
factors. Metric non-invariance was found between males and females, and the 
majority of factor loadings differed between males and females. Correlations 
between some latent factors also differed by sex.
LIMITATIONS: Only cross-sectional data were collected, and the study did not 
assess a broad range of DSM-5 defined eating disorder symptoms or other 
disorders in the DSM-5 obsessive-compulsive and related disorders chapter.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to statistically evaluate competing models 
of BDD classification. The findings highlight the unique features of BDD and its 
associations with affective and eating disorders. Future studies examining the 
classification of BDD should consider developmental and sex differences in their 
models.