OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to ascertain psychiatrists' treatment 
preferences for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) and compare them to the same 
psychiatrists' treatment preferences in the hypothetical scenario that treatment 
is to be administered to themselves as patients.
METHODS: A questionnaire was completed by 221 psychiatrists from 3 Balkan 
countries. They were asked to indicate their treatment preferences for patients 
with GAD and for themselves as patients.
RESULTS: A large majority of psychiatrists chose selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors/serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors as preferred 
treatment option for GAD patients. Fewer psychiatrists selected benzodiazepines 
and pregabalin and about one third chose psychotherapy. The majority of 
psychiatrists chose the same treatments for their patients and for themselves, 
with main differences being in terms of pharmacotherapy (especially 
benzodiazepines) being less frequently recommended and psychotherapy being more 
frequently recommended as preferred treatment option for psychiatrists as 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment preferences for GAD by psychiatrists in the 3 West Balkan 
countries were mostly in accordance with treatment guidelines and treatment 
preferences for patients and for psychiatrists as patients were mostly 
concordant. However, some psychiatrists were more likely to choose 
pharmacotherapy for patients and psychotherapy for themselves as patients. These 
findings have implications for education of psychiatrists and for efforts to 
improve treatment guidelines and mental health services.