OBJECTIVE: Psychiatric symptomatology during childhood predicts persistent 
mental illness later in life. While neuroimaging methodologies are routinely 
applied cross-sectionally to the study of child and adolescent psychopathology, 
the nature of the relationship between childhood symptoms and the underlying 
neurodevelopmental processes remains unclear. The authors used a prospective 
population-based cohort to delineate the longitudinal relationship between 
childhood psychiatric problems and brain development.
METHOD: A total of 845 children participated in the study. Psychiatric symptoms 
were measured with the parent-rated Child Behavior Checklist at ages 6 and 10. 
MRI data were collected at ages 8 and 10. Cross-lagged panel models and linear 
mixed-effects models were used to determine the associations between psychiatric 
symptom ratings and quantitative anatomic and white matter microstructural 
measures over time.
RESULTS: Higher ratings for externalizing and internalizing symptoms at baseline 
predicted smaller increases in both subcortical gray matter volume and global 
fractional anisotropy over time. The reverse relationship did not hold; thus, 
baseline measures of gray matter and white matter were not significantly related 
to changes in symptom ratings over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Children presenting with behavioral problems at an early age show 
differential subcortical and white matter development. Most neuroimaging models 
tend to explain brain differences observed in psychopathology as an underlying 
(causal) neurobiological substrate. However, the present work suggests that 
future neuroimaging studies showing effects that are pathogenic in nature should 
additionally explore the possibility of the downstream effects of 
psychopathology on the brain.
