Hypersexuality refers to abnormally increased or extreme involvement in any 
sexual activity. It is clinically challenging, presents trans-diagnostically and 
there is extensive medical literature addressing the nosology, pathogenesis and 
neuropsychiatric aspects in this clinical syndrome. Classification includes 
deviant behaviours, diagnosable entities related to impulsivity, and obsessional 
phenomena. Some clinicians view an increase in sexual desire as 'normal' i.e. 
psychodynamic theorists consider it as egodefensive at times alleviating 
unconscious anxiety rooted in intrapsychic conflicts. We highlight 
hypersexuality as multi-dimensional involving an increase in sexual activity 
that is associated with distress and functional impairment. The aetiology of 
hypersexuality is multi-factorial with differential diagnoses that include major 
psychiatric disorders (e.g. bipolar disorder), adverse effects of treatments 
(e.g. levodopatreatment), substance-induced disorders (e.g. amphetamine 
substance use), neuropathological disorders (e.g. frontal lobe syndrome), among 
others. Numerous neurotransmitters are implicated in its pathogenesis, with 
dopamine and noradrenaline playing a crucial role in the neural reward pathways 
and emotionally- regulated limbic system neural circuits. The management of 
hypersexuality is determined by the principle of de causa effectu evanescent, if 
the causes are treated, the effect may disappear. We aim to review the role of 
pharmacological agents causing hypersexuality and centrally acting agents 
treating the associated underlying medical conditions. Bio-psycho-social 
determinants are pivotal in embracing the understanding and guiding management 
of this complex and multi-determined clinical syndrome.