
OBJECTIVE: The present study compared sleep sufficiency in youth with current 
Tourette's disorder (TD), history of TD and matched case controls, and examined 
predictors of sufficient sleep using a large US population-based survey.
METHOD: Participants were 673 caregivers of youth aged 6 to 17 years (298 with 
current TD, 122 with a history of TD with no endorsement of current diagnosis, 
and 254 matched case controls) from the 2007 and 2011-2012 versions of the 
National Survey of Children's Health. History and current TD status, current 
comorbidity (attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, anxiety, and depression) 
and psychiatric medication status were assessed by yes/no items. Current TD 
severity was dichotomized into mild or moderate/severe symptoms. Sleep was 
assessed by parent-reported number of sufficient nights their child slept in the 
past week.
RESULTS: Univariate analysis of variance yielded significant group differences 
in nights of sufficient sleep (F[2,369.70] = 71.53, p < .001), with controls 
having 1.5 more nights per week relative to both TD groups (p < .001). With 
respect to predictors of sufficient sleep, the analysis of covariance yielded a 
significant age × sex × TD severity interaction (F[1,15.84] = 4.28, p = .04) 
such that older adolescent males with mild TD had significantly fewer nights of 
sufficient sleep than children (p = .004) and early adolescents (p = .002; 
F[2,54.93] = 7.45, p = .001). Early adolescent females with moderate/severe TD 
had fewer nights of sufficient sleep relative to males (p = .008). Comorbidity 
type and psychiatric medication status did not significantly predict sleep.
CONCLUSION: Findings suggest that insufficient sleep in youth with TD persists 
independently of comorbidity or psychiatric medication status. Findings 
highlight the importance of clinical sleep monitoring in this population.