IMPORTANCE: Although there is evidence that adverse childhood experiences are 
associated with worse mental health in adulthood, scarce evidence is available 
regarding an emerging concern that the next generation might also be affected.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the risk of psychiatric hospitalization in cousins whose 
parents were vs were not exposed to the Finnish evacuation policy that involved 
a mean 2-year stay with a Swedish foster family.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This multigenerational, population-based 
cohort study of Finnish individuals and their siblings born between January 1, 
1933, and December 31, 1944, analyzed the association of evacuee status as a 
child during World War II in the first generation with the risk of psychiatric 
hospitalization among offspring in the second generation. Evacuee status during 
World War II was determined using the Finnish National Archive's registry of 
participants in the Finnish evacuation. Data on evacuee status were linked to 
the psychiatric diagnoses in the Finnish Hospital Discharge Register from 
January 1, 1971, through December 31, 2012, for offspring (n = 93 391) born 
between January 1, 1950, and December 31, 2010. Sex-specific Cox proportional 
hazards regression models were used to estimate hazard ratios for risk of 
psychiatric hospitalization during the follow-up period. Because offspring of 
evacuees and their nonevacuated siblings are cousins, the Cox proportional 
hazards regression models included fixed effects to adjust for confounding 
factors in families. Data analysis was performed from June 15, 2016, to August 
26, 2017.
EXPOSURES: Parental participation in the evacuation during World War II (coded 1 
for parents who were evacuated and placed in foster care and 0 for those not 
evacuated).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Offspring's initial admission to the hospital for a 
psychiatric disorder, obtained from the Finnish Hospital Discharge Register from 
January 1, 1971, through December 31, 2012.
RESULTS: Of the 93 391 study persons, 45 955 (49.2%) were women and 47 436 
(50.8) were men; mean (SD) age in 2012 among survivors was 45.4 (6.58) years. 
Female offspring of mothers evacuated to Sweden during childhood had an elevated 
risk of psychiatric hospitalization (hazard ratio for any type of psychiatric 
disorder: 2.04 [95% CI, 1.04-4.01]; hazard ratio for mood disorder: 4.68 [95% 
CI, 1.92-11.42]). There was no excess risk of being hospitalized for a 
psychiatric disorder among women whose fathers were exposed to the Finnish 
evacuation policy during World War II or among men whose mothers or fathers were 
exposed.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In a prior follow-up study of the Finnish evacuees, 
girls evacuated to Swedish foster families during World War II were more likely 
to be hospitalized for a psychiatric disorder-in particular, a mood disorder-in 
adulthood than their nonevacuated sisters. The present study found that the 
offspring of these individuals were also at risk for mental health problems that 
required hospitalization and suggests that early-life adversities, including 
war-related exposures, may be associated with mental health disorders that 
persist across generations.
