BACKGROUND: Insomnia symptoms are highly prevalent among patients with 
psychiatric disorders, and this mandates the need to identify the best 
self-administered sleep measure to screen for clinical insomnia among them.
METHODS: A total of 400 psychiatric outpatients completed the Pittsburgh Sleep 
Quality Index, Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Flinders 
Fatigue Scale, Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire, and Dysfunctional 
Beliefs and Attitudes about Sleep Scale in a cross-sectional study. The 
sensitivity, specificity, positive, and negative predictive values of these six 
sleep scales were assessed and compared in relation to both ICD-10 and DSM-5 
insomnia disorder status established using the interviewer-administered Brief 
Insomnia Questionnaire.
RESULTS: Receiver operator characteristic curves with the area under the curve 
(AUC) revealed the ISI to be the most accurate measure to discriminate cases and 
non-cases on both ICD-10 (AUC = 0.88, 95% CI = 0.84-0.92) and DSM-5 (AUC = 0.82, 
95% CI = 0.78-0.86) criteria with "good" accuracy. The cut-off scores of ≥14 
and ≥ 11 for the ISI provided optimal sensitivity and specificity for the 
detection of ICD-10 and DSM-5 insomnia, respectively.
DISCUSSION: With the new calling from DSM-5 to treat sleep symptoms in the 
presence of a co-existing mental condition, early detection of psychiatric 
patients with clinically significantly insomnia using a simple but accurate 
self-report sleep measure becomes important. Our study suggests that the ISI 
could be used as a potential screening tool for comorbid insomnia disorder in 
patients with mental disorders.