Epigenetics refers to environmentally sensitive modifications to DNA and 
chromatin that regulate gene transcription without altering the genetic sequence 
itself. Because of the brain's central role in a person's adaptation to dynamic 
changes in the environment, the field of epigenetic research is particularly 
pertinent for the neurosciences and mental health and illness. 
"Neuroepigenetics" refers to the field of epigenetics, as applied to research of 
the nervous system and related functional abilities. The onset and course of 
mental disorders revolve around person-environment interactions, i.e., the 
interplay between environmental factors with people (and their brain) throughout 
life and on the background of an individual's inherited genomic make-up. With 
respect to the nervous system and its functional abilities, neuroepigenetic 
research aims to turn the inside outs by explicating the epigenetic profiles 
that regulate gene expression within cells while epigenetic profiles themselves 
may reflect the imprints of external factors (the outside of the organism). 
Neuroepigenetic research is of prime importance for elucidating the molecular 
underpinnings of gene-environment interplay in relation to functional abilities 
of the brain and mental health throughout life, and thus for identifying the 
mechanisms underlying onset and course of mental disorders. However, 
neuroepigenetic research is still in its infancy and many conceptual and 
methodological challenges are apparent. In addition, there are considerable 
complexities and major challenges in conceptualizing the nature and diagnosis of 
mental disorders, and these need to be taken into account in studying 
neuroepigenetics of mental disorders. The current manuscript provides an 
overview and conceptual framework for neuroepigenetic research in mental 
disorders.