
Introduction Telepsychiatric modalities are used widely in the treatment of many 
mental illnesses. It has also been proposed that telepsychiatric modalities 
could be a way to reduce readmissions. The purpose of the study was to conduct a 
systematic review of the literature on the effects of telepsychiatric modalities 
on readmissions in psychiatric settings. Methods We conducted a systematic 
literature search in MEDLINE, CINAHL, Embase, Cochrane, PsycINFO and Joanna 
Briggs databases in October 2015. Inclusion criteria were (a) patients with a 
psychiatric diagnosis, (b) telepsychiatric interventions and (c) an outcome 
related to readmission. Results The database search identified 218 potential 
studies, of which eight were eligible for the review. Studies were of varying 
quality and there was a tendency towards low-quality studies (five studies) 
which found positive outcomes regarding readmission, whereas the more 
methodological sound studies (three studies) found no effect of telepsychiatric 
modalities on readmission rates. Discussion Previous studies have proven the 
effectiveness of telepsychiatric modalities in the treatment of various mental 
illnesses. However, in the present systematic review we were unable to find an 
effect of telepsychiatric modalities on the rate of readmission. Some studies 
found a reduced rate of readmissions, but the poor methodological quality make 
the findings questionable. At the present time there is no evidence to support 
the use of telepsychiatry due to heterogeneous interventions, heterogeneous 
patient groups and lack of high-quality studies.
