BACKGROUND: Mindfulness-based interventions (MBIs) have been increasingly used 
as an adjunctive treatment to pharmacotherapy for a few psychiatric disorders. 
However, few studies have investigated the efficacy of MBIs in bipolar disorder 
(BD).
METHODS: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the 
efficacy of MBIs as an adjunctive treatment in BD. Major electronic databases 
were independently searched by two authors for controlled and uncontrolled 
studies which examined the effects of MBIs on psychiatric symptoms in subjects 
with BD. Data from original studies were synthesized by using a random effects 
model.
RESULTS: Twelve trials were eligible for inclusion into current meta-analysis, 
including three controlled studies (n=132) and nine uncontrolled studies 
(n=142). In within-group analysis, MBIs significantly reduced depressive (7 
studies, n=100, Hedges' g=0.58, p<0.001) and anxiety (4 studies, n=68, Hedges' 
g=0.34, p=0.043) symptoms, but not manic symptoms (6 studies, n=89, Hedges' 
g=0.09, p=0.488) and cognition (3 studies, n=43, Hedges' g=0.35, p=0.171), 
compared to baseline. In between-group analysis (intervention group versus 
waiting list group, all patients with BD), MBIs did not reduce depressive (3 
studies, n=132, Hedges' g=0.46, p=0.315) or anxiety (3 studies, n=132, Hedges' 
g=0.33, p=0.578) symptoms.
LIMITATIONS: Only three controlled trials compared MBIs to control conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: Our meta-analysis showed significantly beneficial effects on 
depressive and anxiety symptoms of BD patients in within-group analysis. 
However, this significance was not observed in comparison with the control 
groups. Further clinical trials are warranted to investigate the differences in 
the benefits of MBIs between treatment and control subjects.