The present study examined the associations of familial expressed emotion (EE) 
with clinical and personal recovery among patients with psychiatric disorders, 
as well as the potential mechanisms underlying these associations. Guided by the 
content-process theory of self-stigma, we hypothesized that EE would be 
negatively associated with clinical and personal recovery and that these 
associations would be mediated by self-stigma content and process. A total of 
311 patients with psychiatric disorders completed questionnaires on their 
perceptions of EE, self-stigma, and recovery. Structural equation modeling 
demonstrated that EE was positively associated with self-stigma content and 
process, which were in turn negatively associated with clinical and personal 
recovery. The indirect effects of EE on clinical and personal recovery, via 
self-stigma content and process, were also significant. Multigroup analyses 
further demonstrated that the impact of EE on self-stigma and recovery was 
generalizable across patients with psychotic and nonpsychotic disorders. 
Theoretically, our findings revealed the potential pathways through which EE may 
adversely affect psychiatric recovery. Practically, our findings highlighted the 
importance of designing multipronged intervention programs to reduce familial EE 
and its potential harmful impact on psychiatric patients. In addition to helping 
family members improve their knowledge about psychiatric disorders and adjust 
their communication styles, practitioners should help psychiatric patients 
develop resilience against EE, mitigate self-stigma, and achieve recovery. 
(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2018 APA, all rights reserved).