Psychiatric illnesses are complex and polygenic. They are associated with 
widespread alterations in the brain, which are partly influenced by genetic 
factors. There have been some attempts to relate polygenic risk scores (PRS) - a 
measure of the overall genetic risk an individual carries for a disorder - to 
brain structure using univariate methods. However, PRS are likely associated 
with distributed and covarying effects across the brain. We therefore used 
multivariate machine learning in this proof-of-principle study to investigate 
associations between brain structure and PRS for four psychiatric disorders; 
attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), autism, bipolar disorder and 
schizophrenia. The sample included 213 individuals comprising patients with 
depression (69), bipolar disorder (33), and healthy controls (111). The five 
psychiatric PRSs were calculated based on summary data from the Psychiatric 
Genomics Consortium. T1-weighted magnetic resonance images were obtained and 
voxel-based morphometry was implemented in SPM12. Multivariate relevance vector 
regression was implemented in the Pattern Recognition for Neuroimaging Toolbox 
(PRoNTo). Across the whole sample, a multivariate pattern of grey matter 
significantly predicted the PRS for autism (r = 0.20, pFDR = 0.03; 
MSE = 4.20 × 10-5, pFDR = 0.02). For the schizophrenia PRS, the MSE was 
significant (MSE = 1.30 × 10-5, pFDR = 0.02) although the correlation was not 
(r = 0.15, pFDR = 0.06). These results lend support to the hypothesis that 
polygenic liability for autism and schizophrenia is associated with widespread 
changes in grey matter concentrations. These associations were seen in 
individuals not affected by these disorders, indicating that this is not driven 
by the expression of the disease, but by the genetic risk captured by the PRSs.