INTRODUCTION: Vaccines are one of the newer therapeutic modalities being 
researched in psychiatric illnesses with limited role of pharmacological 
interventions. Preclinical studies on vaccines have shown favorable results in 
conditions like Substance use Disorders and Alzheimer's Dementia. However, the 
utility of Mumps Measles Rubella vaccine has been overshadowed by controversy 
linked to causation of Autism. With this background, the current narrative 
review aimed to comprehensively and critically evaluate the current status of 
vaccines in Psychiatric illnesses.
METHODS: Preliminary literature search using the electronic databases of MEDLINE 
and Google Scholar between May 1967 and May 2017 using the search terms 
"Vaccines" and "Psychiatry" was carried out and articles were found in the 
following areas of research: Substance use, Alzheimer Dementia, Autism, Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus and Human Papilloma Virus Further, the refined search was 
done using combinations of search terms "Vaccine", "Nicotine", "Cocaine", 
"Opioid", "Alzheimer Dementia", "Autism", and "Pervasive Developmental 
Disorders" and peer - reviewed original articles published in English conducted 
among human subjects and published in English language were included for review.
RESULTS: A total of 31 articles found eligible were organized into appropriate 
sections synthesizing the literature on role of vaccines in specific disorders 
such as Substance Use Disorders, Alzheimer Dementia and Pervasive Developmental 
Disorders.
DISCUSSION: The therapeutic potential of vaccines in Substance Use Disorders and 
Alzheimer Dementia was found to be limited in comparison to the results from 
animal studies. Safety profile of the immunogens and the adjuvants in humans is 
possibly the most important limitation. No causal association between Measles 
Mumps Rubella vaccine and Autism was found.